The Joe Rogan experience. How are you doing, man? You're all healed up.
The bruising and swelling has gone down as you can see,
but the most serious injury was to the right.
You have a serious injury to your brain, brain hemorrhage.
What happened from what the mob beating? So from getting hit in the head,
you got a brain hemorrhage.
Multiple times fusions. Yes.
They were bashing me on the back of my head and to my eyes. Um.
But so how do you know you had brain hemorrhaging and now are you able to just
walk around? Well.
It's taken two. I started losing my balance after the beating.
There was no police. I made it, uh, to the courthouse, sat down on the ground.
Ambulance was called.
I had to walk back to the ambulance because the streets were walked back to the
police precinct in the direction of the mall,
the medics that were associated with the Portland police, let me know that they,
um, that I needed to walk in that direction. It was quite shocking cause it was,
um, I had just been a victim of a small beating.
And then now they're telling me to walk back in direction of, uh,
the center precinct, where the beating had.
Happened. Did they not know that you had been beaten up? Well, let's,
let's let let's,
let's set this up for people who are new to this and don't understand what
happened. Um,
I've been aware of you because of you had written for Colette,
right? And, uh,
you had become one of these for whatever reason,
controversial online journalists and, uh,
you covered Antifa quite a bit and you covered a lot of, uh,
the radical left. You were in Portland.
And what was the exact rally that was going on?
What was it called? Did it have a name? Uh.
It was something like protect Portland.
So it was organized by rose city on tufa and its allies
and by its allies are I'm referring to the local chapter of the
democratic socialists of America that came out to support them. Yeah.
And what are they protecting.
Portland from?
They allege a fascist fascists.
But just in general, I mean,
is there like a particular thing they're worried about?
There were two right-wing events happening that day that they were counter
demonstrating against. There was a, on one side in pod, one pod where downtown,
the proud boys for holding a flag waving event that was completely,
uh, peaceful. There was.
No actually flag waving American flag waving. Correct.
Okay. Um, and a lot of Portland has found that provocative and, uh, uh,
manifestation of a Fisher stick violence.
And in another part of downtown,
there was a men's rights activist who was holding, um, a rally,
uh, uh, it was titled for, for victims of domestic terrorism.
It was an anti Antifa event. So, uh,
uh.
A men's rights activist that was doing an
anti-fascist or anti Antifa, correct. What,
what boy seems like a whole lot to do about nothing
flag-waving and anti Antifa. Okay.
Yeah. Can I set the context for, for the city of Portland? It's a mess.
You have listeners and viewers all over the world. So Portland,
Oregon is a extremely progressive city in the Pacific Northwest
of the U S and um,
I call it a political monoculture because really it's, um,
uh, not just, you're more likely to find socialists open socialists there.
Then you would find like a regular, uh, Republican or conservative.
And within this sort of echo chamber of just left us politics,
there's, it's become also a hotbed for fall off militancy.
So rose city Antifa is you could call it like the local chapter of
movement of Antifa is one of the oldest in the country.
It's very large important and they hold, um,
what you could call protests,
but they're there they're protests that always devolve into riots where they
essentially take over parts of downtown and attack people attack their
ideological opponents and do it frequently with impunity. I mean,
I wasn't the only one to talk that day.
There were two other people who were bashed on the head very ill and have very
severe lacerations to the face on hat. Um, you may recall the footage, uh,
from October of last year when there was an elderly driver who was attacked on
the street.
Yeah. They were directing traffic. Exactly. And somehow or another,
the mayor thought it was a good idea to let this take place. Is that the case?
And they told the police to stand down. Is that true?
So, um,
I mean the next part of this journey for me will be the legal aspect of it.
And it seems like something stinks in Portland.
The issue is really not with the rank and file officers.
They're following orders to not intervene. So I,
I had been, uh,
assaulted and criminally harassed early before the mall beating people were
throwing milkshakes at my face and head within eyesight of police who were
watching in downtown. And both of these were reported. And the,
the answer that I heard that day, as I've heard many times before,
when I've been assaulted by Antifa is we will not question
approach or detain the suspect because this could incite the crap.
Okay. So this is why this has exacerbated,
or this is why this has become such a big deal in Portland because of this
attitude,
because Portland seems to be the hotbed right now for this kind of stuff.
Is that.
Is that fair to say? I think it is.
So is this the mayor who, I mean, who is,
who's the one who's giving the orders to the police to tell them,
to allow this stuff to take place?
Well, um, I'm crowdfunding the legal fund right now,
and we are willing, we are going to hold accountable.
Whoever is responsible for dereliction of duty, where the evidence leads us.
So Portland,
how's the odd governance system in that the mayor who is up for
reelection by the way is also the police commissioner.
So.
Yeah. Um, how does that work? It.
It was an old system that I'd inherited and it just never changed.
From the wild west. Like that sounds ridiculous.
It is ridiculous.
You can see all the political con the conflicts and in conflicts of interest
that that would arise, right? Yeah.
Yeah. Shitload, um, how did you get involved in this? Like what,
why first of all, why were they angry you?
I, uh, I work as a journalist, uh, I'll name,
like places that I've been published before I write and I do video and I do
podcasts. So my written work has been published in the wall street journal,
the national review spectator, New York post.
I'm also on the editorial team of Colette magazine. Um,
and one of my beats among salvo is about far less militancy,
particularly in Portland. And to me,
what I was noticing was that the national and local media coverage,
how a particular blind spot,
when it came to their coverage on Antifa,
there was all this sensitivity to the colonoscopy fall, right?
And a white nationalism or white identity
extremism, but they could not,
or would not recognize the militancy that was on the left.
And Portland seemed to be one of the places for ground zero,
particularly after 2016,
we had very violent rioting in downtown that
a segment of the population could not accept the election results in November.
And so, uh, they did a million dollars in damage setting fires and,
uh, destroying properties and businesses. And now at that time,
I was a graduate student working at the student paper,
and I did a story on that. And I came out to witness and it, it,
you know, this was a major American city,
but it felt like I was in Afghanistan or Iraq,
just with all these fires and explosions and people running around with Botswana
mast up.
And that was the first time I really became familiar with Antifa and I took an
interest in it.
And I saw over and over that the media coverage was basically
really sort of whitewashing them kind of like referring to them as
antifascist, giving them that propaganda,
victory and Antifa movement doubt,
masters of doublespeak and disinformation.
So it starts with the name Antifa is short for anti-fascist,
but I never referred to them as that because, um,
that's seeding the ground to, uh, to then,
uh, they, when they say that they are defending a community,
self-defense,
it actually is referring to meet premeditated violence and offensive violence.
So I started going into covering this more and more, you know,
after I left the student paper, I started writing for, um,
some national and international publications.
And there internationally, there was a, you know,
a set of readers who interested in what the hell is going on in Portland.
Why are there these continue scenes of street, brawls and anarchy over and over?
What are the variables that are causing this?
And I thought that I could try to shine a light on it.
And by doing so,
Antifa became enraged with my work.
And particularly things they've hated me since last year,
but they started really escalating, um,
on, on the 1st of May, may day. Um,
so this year was when I was physically assaulted
by them for the first time,
they were very upset that I wrote a story for the New York
post, where there was a series of,
and this is one of the other beats that I work on is a hate crime hoaxes
and Portland earlier this year had this huge panic over serious
allegations of, uh,
LGBT people claiming that there were marauding right-wing gangs, driving around,
trying to kill people with bats, with hammers,
trying to kidnap them.
And these were all rumors that were reported on social media calls,
a huge frenzy, even the mayor, uh, had to come out and, you know,
issue statement about how he was concerned.
There was an emergency town hall with the local center.
And, um, so I started looking into all these allegations. There were 15 of them,
and I found that of the 15, only one was reported to police.
And what was reported to police
undocumented in the report was entirely different from the GoFund me where over
$10,000 was raised for this trans activist. Um,
she had alleged that one night walking home transphobic people had beat her
with the bat and knocked her unconscious police report said that she was
extremely intoxicated and unlikely fell.
And there was no evidence that anybody had assaulted her.
So when the story came out, because Antifa was really anti fund,
the democratic socialists of America in Portland were really involved in
paddling. This hate crime fear in Portland. And I just kinda,
you know, threw water on this, this, uh, uh, panic that they have been,
um, flaming. And so on the 1st of May,
um,
there was a ride that I was covering and one of the mast ANSI field people went
up and sprayed me with, I think it was bam mace,
some type of chemical that blinds you and burns you.
Yeah. I saw that video. Yeah.
So there was no police that ha that was there. That, I mean,
that Antifa event was publicly advertised on Facebook and all that.
So over and over,
like Antifa is very transparent about their calls for people to come to the
stuff in,
to engage in this physical confrontation that they call self-defense and the
police either stay away or on purpose or are told to
stay away. So.
It's very confusing because when you watch the videos there,
there's amazing people, they're macing people who disagree with them,
like they're yelling at each other and then someone will come along and maize
people and for the police to not step in and do something it's
I don't,
I don't think there's another city in the country that would allow something
like that. It just doesn't, it doesn't seem like it makes any sense at all,
because you're,
you're not talking about people that are being physically attacked and that are
macing someone to protect themselves,
or even a threat of being physically attacked.
They're just disagreeing with each other and yelling at each other.
And then someone will come along and start macing people.
And I've seen it many times.
And I think there's also a real problem with people wearing masks. You know,
whether their ideology makes sense or not.
When you put people in masks and then you have a bunch of people yelling and
escalating, and then there's teams, there's team and TIVA versus team, you know,
anybody opposing them,
they feel is a white supremacist or a Nazi.
And this is just how they've chosen to frame it to dehumanize people.
And then you see them attack people.
I'm sure you're aware of the girl who got maced in the face because she had a
hat on that said, make Bitcoin great again,
but it was the same color hat as the make America great again, hat.
And she got maced in the face and she got hit with something too, right?
Didn't she get hit in the face with something. Anyway,
this kind of is really weird.
It's really weird and disturbing to see these young people with these ideal
idealistic versions of what they're doing.
I think a lot of the people that are involved in that really think they are
fighting fascism. They really do.
They really think that Donald Trump and the proud boys and white supremacists
from Charlottesville, carrying Tiki torches,
that these people represent something horrible.
That's sweeping across the country.
And the young people today need to stand up and fight against this.
And they're putting on masks and they're carrying backpacks and whacking people
in the head with Crow bars is really weird to see.
And it's really weird that the city of Portland or all cities, in fact,
haven't made some sort of a law where you can't walk around in public with a
mask on, because that is one of the things that helps these people.
It's the same thing that you see on social media when people are anonymous and
they say the most horrible hateful.
They're saying that because they're not in front of you,
you can't recognize them.
They don't have to take responsibility for what they're saying.
This a lot of the same characteristics that a person has when they're wearing a
costume, you're dressed in all black with gloves on and a face mask.
And you're hitting people with a bike lock. Like what, what is that about? Well,
what that's about is you're getting away with being anonymous and you're getting
support from all these other people around you.
There's this mob mentality that takes place. It's, well-documented with humans,
where when you get a group of people together and there's another group and it's
like, it's a tribal warfare type situation.
And that's what you're seeing within teeth.
And the fact that the Portland police have,
I don't know what's going on with them where they're,
they've been told to not handle that,
but the fact they haven't done anything to mitigate. This is it's.
It's embarrassing. It's, it's a shame. It's, it's terrible. It really is.
And it's, it's, it's a travesty.
You asked about the mayor earlier. And, and if he issued any stand down orders,
there's a statement that was put out after I was attacked by the pat Darrell
Turner, who's the president of the police union. And he said very clearly,
he called from the mayor to remove the handcuffs handcuffs of law
enforcement so they can enforce the law.
And he accused the mayor of politicizing. The police department.
Is this mayor popular? No, he's not.
He's hated well by moderates because of
the things that he allows to happen in the city,
but the fallout hate him as well. They view him as not radical enough.
[Inaudible].